Clarify nonce entropy requirements (#722)
openid/OpenID4VP: 1.0/openid-4-verifiable-presentations-1_0.md

The following additional considerations are given for pre-existing Authorization Request parameters:

`nonce`:

> : REQUIRED. A case-sensitive String representing a value to securely bind Verifiable Presentation(s) provided by the Wallet to the particular transaction. The Verifier MUST create a fresh and unpredictable nonce using a secure cryptographically random number generator of at least 128 bits of entropy for every Authorization Request and store it with its current session. See (#preventing-replay) for details. Values MUST only contain ASCII URL safe characters (uppercase and lowercase letters, decimal digits, hyphen, period, underscore, and tilde).

Reviewer: I believe we should add a note here explaining that a self-contained nonce (e.g., HMACed) is fine as well provided the underlying algorithm (e.g., HMAC) provides enough entropy. I believe that is also roughly what was discussed 1-2 weeks ago when this was discussed in the WG?

Author: there is nothing that prevents you from putting a 128 bit random value into the self-contained nonce?

Reviewer: Yes, we should just make that explicit/explain that

Author: Should we add this to [14.1. ](https://openid.net/specs/openid-4-verifiable-presentations-1_0.html#section-14.1)[Preventing Replay of Verifiable Presentations](https://openid.net/specs/openid-4-verifiable-presentations-1_0.html#name-preventing-replay-of-verifi) rather than in this chapter?

Reviewer 2: I think the consensus was that it would be great to add a description of how to do the HMAC approach correctly, but it could be moved into a separate issue/PR.

> : REQUIRED. A case-sensitive String representing a value to securely bind Verifiable Presentation(s) provided by the Wallet to the particular transaction. The Verifier MUST create a fresh and unpredictable nonce using a secure cryptographically random number generator of at least 128 bits of entropy for every Authorization Request and store it with its current session. See (#preventing-replay) for details. Values MUST only contain ASCII URL safe characters (uppercase and lowercase letters, decimal digits, hyphen, period, underscore, and tilde).

Reviewer 3: This might cause some verifiers that are compliant with the current spec to become out of compliance I think, i.e. it's a breaking change.

I'm not sure how we address that. But it is a potential issue given 1.0 is intended to be named in EU law. One possibility is to make it a 'SHOULD' instead, perhaps with a note that it would have been made mandatory if not for backwards compliance.

Author: I suggest this to be a MUST, as this is just making "sufficient" more precise to current best practices

Reviewer 4: if this breaks existing implementations, we can't make it a must. and need to find an alternative way

Author: I believe this is what errata is made for

Reviewer 2: I agree that it's probably best to make it a RECOMMENDED 128 bits and keep the normative language the same.

> : REQUIRED. A case-sensitive String representing a value to securely bind Verifiable Presentation(s) provided by the Wallet to the particular transaction. The Verifier MUST create a fresh and unpredictable nonce using a secure cryptographically random number generator of at least 128 bits of entropy for every Authorization Request and store it with its current session. See (#preventing-replay) for details. Values MUST only contain ASCII URL safe characters (uppercase and lowercase letters, decimal digits, hyphen, period, underscore, and tilde).

Reviewer 3: The use of 'at least' means we're not specifying an upper bound. The length of nonces that are supported has been an ongoing issue outside of the VP world - sometimes people want to use self contained JWTs as nonces/state, sometimes authorization servers limit the lengths they support. For interoperability we'd need to say something about an upper bound on the length.

Author: Don't confuse length and entropy. Also the upper limit for length may be a breaking change.

Reviewer 3: Indeed, it could be a breaking change, but in practice the certification suites have to take a position. Which is currently ~23 characters, and the suite also tries a 43 character nonce I believe and requires that to work.

There generally is a link between entropy and length at least for the lower bound - 128bit means there's a minimum length.

> : REQUIRED. A case-sensitive String representing a value to securely bind Verifiable Presentation(s) provided by the Wallet to the particular transaction. The Verifier MUST create a fresh and unpredictable nonce using a secure cryptographically random number generator of at least 128 bits of entropy for every Authorization Request and store it with its current session. See (#preventing-replay) for details. Values MUST only contain ASCII URL safe characters (uppercase and lowercase letters, decimal digits, hyphen, period, underscore, and tilde).

Author: ```suggestion
: REQUIRED. A case-sensitive String representing a value to securely bind Verifiable Presentation(s) provided by the Wallet to the particular transaction. The Verifier MUST create a fresh and unpredictable nonce for every Authorization Request and store it with its current session. The nonce SHOULD be generated using a secure cryptographic random number generator and contain at least 128 bits of entropy. See (#preventing-replay) for details. Values MUST only contain ASCII URL safe characters (uppercase and lowercase letters, decimal digits, hyphen, period, underscore, and tilde).
```

> : REQUIRED. A case-sensitive String representing a value to securely bind Verifiable Presentation(s) provided by the Wallet to the particular transaction. The Verifier MUST create a fresh and unpredictable nonce for every Authorization Request and store it with its current session. The nonce SHOULD be generated using a secure cryptographic random number generator and contain at least 128 bits of entropy. See (#preventing-replay) for details. Values MUST only contain ASCII URL safe characters (uppercase and lowercase letters, decimal digits, hyphen, period, underscore, and tilde).

Author: ```suggestion
: REQUIRED. A case-sensitive String representing a value to securely bind Verifiable Presentation(s) provided by the Wallet to the particular transaction. The Verifier MUST create a fresh, cryptographically random number with sufficient entropy for every Authorization Request and store it with its current session. The nonce SHOULD contain at least 128 bits of entropy. See (#preventing-replay) for details. Values MUST only contain ASCII URL safe characters (uppercase and lowercase letters, decimal digits, hyphen, period, underscore, and tilde).
```
